WM-9(6)/2010-Pt
Government of India
Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution
Department of Consumer Affairs
Legal Metrology Division
Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi
Dated:30/09/2011
The Controller of Legal Metrology,
All States/ UTs
Subject: Implementation of the Legal Metrology Act, 2009 and the Legal
Metrology
(Packaged
Commodities)
implementation thereof.
Rules,
2011-Guidelines
for
Sir,
In continuation of the earlier guidelines issued by this office dated
29.4.2011, the undersigned is to state that many request of the Industries/
Industry Associations are received in this Department stating that industries
Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011 and requesting for
granting time to exhaust their current stock of pre-printed wrappers in
respect of non-standard size packages.
2.  Since the industries are representing that they need more lead time to
change from old rules to new rules to update the labelling requirements for
Rule 5, it is requested that:
(0)
Efforts may be made to give vide publicity to the changes made in the
Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011 so as to spread
awareness amongst manufacturers/packers etc.
(ii)  The initial enforcement steps may only be in the nature of
investigational surveys. Any deficiency noticed should be brought in the
notice of the concerned. This is being suggested to provide an opportunity to
manufacturers/packers to update their label declarations. This approach may
be continued upto 31st March, 2012 and it is expected that in this initial period
there should be no prosecution for the shortcomings in the labelling
requirement under Rule 5.
(li)  The Enforcement Authorities of your State may accordingly be
instructed for due compliance of the above guidelines.
This issues with the approval of Hon'ble Minister of State
(Independent Charge) for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution.
Yours faithfully
Bad.Nst dul
(B N Dixit)
Director (Legal Metrology)
Tel. No.23389489, Email: dirwm-ca@nic.in
Copy to: All Major Industry Associations.